I want to discuss a bit more about specific types of transformations.
There are two types of transformations, narrow and wide.
In terms of Hadoop,
narrow transformations are like map and the wide transformations are like reduce.
In narrow transformations, each partition only depends on a subset of
the parent partitions and a limited subset of partitions is used to calculate the result.
Narrow transformations are the result of map, filter and flatmap.
In wide transformations, the parent RDDs of
elements that are being calculated may live in different partitions,
which means there can be shuffles between machines and networks.
groupByKey and reduceByKey are the two most popular wide transformations.
Between narrow and wide transformations,
wide transformations will likely slow down your job more.
This doesn't mean you shouldn't use it,
but be aware that these transformations will affect your time more.
This is because wide transformations require that all the partitions are
evaluated and they require shuffling data between executors and machines.
We're going to be looking at how transformations and actions work.
This is a hypothetical distribution of RDDs and
how transformations and actions are applied.
Here in the example diagram,
we see different types of narrow transformations,
which we do a file scan from an arbitrary datalake.
Datalake is any data storage like it's your job,
it could be a WSS3 or Hadoop file system.
RDDs are generated when we do a file scan or file read.
We apply narrow transformations which stays with the parent RDDs in the same machine,
and then we apply a wide transformation which cause a shuffle between two RDDs,
and then we apply an action.
This action is probably a write operation which
writes the data to a desired output or another datalake.